$Id$

The existing Passwordsafe file format is described in notes.txt This
format, while efficient and secure, has several shortcomings:

1. No version identifier. This makes changes to the record structure
   very difficult.
2. Integers (field length) stored in host order. This is a portability
   issue when writing and reading on machines of different
   endian-ness.
3. Record structure is fixed and implicit.
4. Record title and username are stored in the same field, separated
   by a special character. This is kludgey, and apparantly breaks on
   machines running Chinese Windows XP.
5. Text is stored as ASCII, meaning that multilingual records are not
   supported.
6. Fields are encrypted/decrypted using a passkey derived from the master
   passphrase and salt. This requires keeping the master passphrase in
   memory for the lifetime of the application.

The following proposed format attempts to address the above
shortcomings:

1. A PasswordSafe file will start with the RND|H(RND) pair as
   define in the 1.x format, to enable quick verification of the
   passphrase. 

2. Following RND|H(RND) will be the SALT and IP as in the 1.x
   format. From here onwards, all data is encrpyted in 8 byte blocks,
   with the first block holding the length (in bytes) of the encrypted
   field that follows and the type (see section 6). The length is
   stored as a 32 bit unsigned value in little-endian byte order (to
   maintain compatability with 1.x applications). The type is a 1-byte
   code. The following N blocks contain the actual value of the
   encrypted field, where N is the length read from the length block
   divided by the blocksize in bytes (8), rounded upwards. Note that
   the type byte is new for version 2. Version 1.x currently reads
   only the 4 byte length value from the first block.

3. Following the SALT and IP is a Format Description Block. This will
   be parsed by 1.x applications so as to show "!!!Version 2 File
   Format!!!" as the title of the first entry. (The following entries
   will be displayed as "garbage", but this should give the user an
   indication of what the problem is.) In more detail, the Format
   Description Block will consist of the following fields: Title,
   Password, Notes. Each field consists of a length block followed by
   one or more value blocks. Unlike the actual database entries, these
   field values are encoded in ASCII (not Unicode), so that they may
   be displayed correctly on a 1.x application. The actual values of
   these fields in the Format Description Block are as follows:
   Name:	"!!!Version 2 File Format!!!"
   Password:	"2.0" - corresponds to the major and minor version
		numbers of this file format
   Notes:	"" - currently empty, may be used in future
		versions. To remain compatible for 1.x' an empty field
		(length = 0) will have a single block of 8 bytes of
		random data. 

   The Type byte for the above fields is 0.

4. Following the Format Description Block will be the actual password
   records. As for version 1.x, the order of records has no
   meaning. Each record consists of a fixed number of fields, with
   empty fields having a length of 0 in their first block.  Textual
   data will be stored in Unicode (wchar_t). Numerical data will be
   stored in network byte order. Timestamps will be stored as time_t
   (in network byte order), and refer to local time (I don't think
   timezones are a consideration for our needs).

5. The fields for each record for version 2.0 are as follows:

   Name			      Type byte value	Type     Comments
   --------------------------------------------------------------
   GUID			      0x1		GUID	 [1]
   Group		      0x2		Text     [2]
   Title		      0x3		Text
   Username		      0x4		Text
   Notes		      0x5		Text
   Password		      0x6		Text
   Creation Time	      0x7		time_t
   Password Modification Time 0x8 		time_t
   Last Access Time	      0x9		time_t  [3]
   Password Lifetime	      0xa		time_t  [4]
   Password Policy	      0xb		4 bytes [5]
   End of Entry		      0xff		[empty] [6]

[1] A globally unique identifier is needed in order to synchronize
databases, i.e., between a handheld pocketPC device and a PC. The GUID
data type is 16 bytes long. A bit of an overkill, perhaps, but I
understand that there's a standard API for synchronization that uses
this datatype.
[2] The "Group" is meant to support displaying the entries in a
tree-like manner. Groups can be heirarchical, with elements separated
by a period, supporting groups such as "Finance.credit cards.Visa",
"Finance.credit cards.Mastercard", Finance.bank.web access", etc. This
implies that periods entered by the user will have a backslash `\`
prepended to them. A backslash entered by the user will have another
backslash prepended. For example, the Group "George W. Bush \
President" will be stored internally as "George W\. Bush \\
President".
[3] This will be updated whenever the password of this entry is copied
to the clipboard, or whenever the Password Modification Time is
updated.
[4] This will allow the user to enter a lifetime for an entry. The
application can then prompt the user about passwords that need to be
changed. Password lifetime is in seconds, and a value of zero means
"forever".
[5] Currently, the password policy is a global property. It makes
sense, however, to want to control this on a per-entry basis. Four
bytes seems sufficient to store the policy. Exact encoding TBD.
[6] An explicit end of entry field is needed so that 2.x programs
won't break when reading 2.y files where x != y. Alternately, we could
have relied on the GUID field being the first, but this would have
been a bit less elegant to parse, as well as less robust (suppose we
decide to drop the GUID, or move it to the last field?).

6. Conversion from 1.x databases to 2.x should be automatic. The user
   should be notified that the 1.x database will be renamed with a
   ".old" suffix added, and the 2.x saved with the old's original
   name.

$Log$
Revision 1.4  2003/07/17 04:16:06  ronys
Added END field type

Revision 1.3  2003/05/25 14:52:29  ronys
Added GUID

Revision 1.2  2003/05/25 12:14:13  ronys
Updated after comments on devel mailing list
