Copyright (c) 2003-2018 Rony Shapiro <ronys@pwsafe.org>.
All rights reserved. Use of the code is allowed under the Artistic
License terms, as specified in the LICENSE file distributed with this
code, or available from
http://www.opensource.org/licenses/artistic-license-2.0.php 

Managing configuration options in PasswordSafe
----------------------------------------------

1. Introduction:
PasswordSafe has many options that may be configured by users to
values that differ from the default values. This note describes how
user configuration options are stored and managed as of version 3.05
of PasswordSafe.

2. Requirements:

2.1 Scope: Some options are relevant to a particular database (such as
    the default password length), while others are common across
    databases, and specific to a given user on a given machine (such
    as the use of the system tray icon). The preference mechanism
    should support both in a user-transparent manner.

2.2 Footprint: Traditionally, the Windows Registry has been used to
    store preferences. This is not always desireable, however, as some
    users may not have rights to access, or wish to leave traces in
    the host machine's registry. Such a user typically runs
    PasswordSafe off a disk-on-key, and all configuration information
    should be available from there.

2.3 Migration: The solution should detect preferences stored by
    previous versions and transparently import them.

2.4 Transparency: All the above should be supported without getting in
    the user's way, that is, without distracting the user from using
    PasswordSafe to store and retrieve her passwords.

3. Solution:

3.1 Database-specific preferences: All non-default preference values
    are stored in the database as described in the formatv3.txt
    document.

3.2 User/Host application preferences: All non-default preference
    values are stored in an XML file, pwsafe.cfg, currently assumed to
    be in the same directory as the pwsafe.exe executable. The file
    has a section per host, and each host has a per-user section,
    allowing the same file to be shared across hosts and between
    different users. Alternately, application-specific preferences may
    be stored in the registry, as described in the following section.

3.3 Footprint: By default, PasswordSafe will try to use pwsafe.cfg in
    the same directory where the executable is located. If the file
    does not exist, or if the user doesn't have read-write access to
    it, PasswordSafe will use the registry, under
    "HKCU\Software\Password Safe\Password Safe" If the user has only
    read access to the file or registry, then changes to application
    preferences will not be saved. Note that this includes the list of
    recently opened databases, as well as the size and position of the
    application's window. If, in addition, the user has no read access
    to either, then the default values will be used.
    In such cases (where PasswordSafe was unable to save application
    prefernces in a file OR in the registry), user will be notified at
    application exit time of the problem, and prompted to save the
    pwsafe.cfg file elsewhere (Save As...).

3.4 Migration: Previous version of PasswordSafe wrote
    database-specific preference values both to the database and to
    the registry, and application-specific preferences only to the
    registry. The location in the registry, however, was under
    "HKCU\Software\Counterpane Systems\Password Safe". Therefore,
    PasswordSafe should check for this location upon invocation, and
    import the preferences found there, UNLESS an "imported" key is
    found, which will be written upon the end of the import process,
    to ensure this is a one-time process. If the "imported" key
    cannot be written, then (and only then) shall the user be notified
    of a problem, with the suggestion that the administrator remove
    the Counterpane Systems tree.


